Dear fellow practitioners,
when listening to the story of Bodhisattva Vesta's giving of his wife and children,
I had
this thought: If my relatives heard
this sutra and were told that
we Buddhists should give away our husbands,
wives, and children to attain Supreme Enlightenment,
would
n't they be worried? I fear that some people,
due to their karma, might also give away everything without restraint.
These two forms of giving are
important to the heart. When is it permissible to give away one's
wife, children, and other paramitas? How
should we practice this giving?
The identifying characteristic is that when he was
young, the Bodhisattva made a vow to give to others to
attain Supreme Enlightenment.
Secondly, before giving,
he was a
person who lived with love and self-sacrifice for
others. Only then could he practice giving in
this way. But what are we doing? We are so worried about
ourselves, so preoccupied with our own well-being, wondering
how to cure our illnesses. That is,
in our hearts...  If we are still attached to our loved ones and selfish,
we cannot practice this giving. Do
you understand? Now, as Buddhists,
we should learn
how to deal with attachments. We should contemplate
karma freely. What is karma? It means
that when we see our loved ones
pass away, we should contemplate karma and not let
sorrow, grief, suffering, and old age arise.
We should be the ones who have done
this for our loved ones. That's just a
small part of our practice. We know that
a human body cannot exist forever
because of karmic forces. Now, because of
karmic forces, we pass away and are reborn
into another life. Therefore, we can make
offerings and give alms to our loved ones so that they may
have a better life.
We are only practicing at a low level like this,
not at a high level where we can give
alms without feeling. If we are
not careful, we will fall into
indifference when we try to follow the Buddha.
There are people like this:
currently, they are very attached
to their loved ones, they are jealous of others, they are
lazy, but...  On the Buddha altar,
I make a vow: "I offer this body as a sacrifice to
seek Supreme Enlightenment."
Then all beings come to
test me, to see if I can still remain steadfast.
Therefore, I must use a
truthful action to pray. I
practice giving, performing meritorious
deeds at the temple without laziness.
If anyone does something wrong, I do it; if they tell me to, I do it; if they scold me, I do it; if they
point out my fault, I do it; if they scold me, I do it; if they correct me, I do it; I repent. I use
this truthful practice to seek
Supreme Enlightenment. Now, if you wake
up at 4 a.m., and people have to call you repeatedly to get up for work, you're just being petty. You
hide in a
corner to sit and work, washing dishes
superficially without any remorse, just putting them on the table. You ignore what
anyone says and argue,
but then you go up before the Three Jewels and
offer this body as a sacrifice to seek
Supreme Enlightenment. That's not
allowed, okay? That means you must use your vows and actions
as a sacrifice. Okay, okay. And I have a
question. Venerable teacher, since this afternoon when I
heard the sutra, I still
have a question.  My question is, I hope you can
help me answer this. In the beginning
of the sutra, I saw it talking about the
practice of giving alms.
I can't say the exact
words, but the general idea is that
when you give alms, the
recipient will receive
different kinds of merit,
right? For example, I think that
if you have money to give,
giving it to an
addict is different from giving it
to a temple, or giving it to
the poor, or giving it to
orphans. But in
the last part, I have a
question. When the
Bodhisattva gave his child to
that Brahmin, even though he witnessed that
person not being a
good person, possibly beating his child or
doing bad things that could harm the child's
life, why did
n't he give it to him? I think that
if someone truly wants to give
alms, then...  So why not
give it to your own children? For example, to
families who are infertile. I
feel that doing so would be better.
I haven't read the sutra yet to see the
ending, but
allow me to ask a question:
if those two children
grow up
being beaten and die resentfully, would you still attain enlightenment?
Thank you very much for
your question. Respectfully, the Venerable Master Huu
Yen will answer your question. Firstly, it is said
that giving alms to a
virtuous person brings much merit.
This belongs to the category of conditioned merit, meaning the merit
of humans and gods. Do you understand this point? The
merit we receive when giving alms
and seeking conditioned merit is when
we give alms to beings like the Buddha.
What is conditioned merit? It means "limited,"
meaning still within the realm of
desires and cravings. Therefore, the
person who gives alms to the Buddha is seeking something.  The
greatest merit arises from offerings to those who have attained enlightenment, followed by
those who are practicing the Buddha's teachings
and practicing detachment. Then comes the merit of those who have taken refuge in the
Buddha, followed by the merit of virtuous people, and finally, the merit of wicked people, which is not much; that is the merit of those with
worldly desires. However, for those who sincerely wish to relinquish attachment and desire, and who practice the path of
renunciation, their merit is immeasurable, regardless of who they give to.
That person is the recipient of the offering,
not the giver. That
person always looks
into their own heart to relinquish all desires and attachments,
and strives
towards enlightenment, benefiting humans,
gods, and all beings. The heart of
that giver spontaneously generates merit through their
actions as a teacher. That
person,
in their heart, will never
choose anyone else as a recipient of their offerings.  Okay, but it
must follow the circumstances. For example, if someone comes to ask for
an eye, regardless of whether they are evil or
good, the person who gives this alms
must give it with a mind free from attachment to the body.
Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners, when one's heart
originates from goodness,
that person will never suffer the consequences. Never
suffer the consequences. Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners,
according to the teachings of the Buddha, the two sons of the
Buddha will fall into two categories:
firstly, they are also people who gather here
to cultivate merit, to achieve
merit for themselves and to support the Buddha in
achieving merit. That is,
Bodhisattvas gathering together to cultivate, so with such a
mind, it is impossible for the Buddha's previous incarnation to create a karmic
connection that would give birth to children with impure minds.
With the Buddha's previous incarnation having such a mind, the
two sons also cultivate the same virtuous deeds; it's just that,
in outward appearance,
all three thousand great
worlds know about it. They wouldn't harbor a single
thought of resentment towards their
father. It's not that the father shouldn't keep them here, but rather that the
Brahmins are aware of it. It's not that there's any resentment or hatred.
Later, they begged their father, "Father, please let me
stay, let me take the punishment in your place." Was there
compassion in that?
We must consider the karmic consequences. I don't
blame the father at all. And that person
will not be an ordinary person in the future, right? So,
who our children will be in the next life, we should look at
our hearts in this life. Does our heart have
generosity or greed? If we
vow to practice and seek Supreme Enlightenment, then
our child must be a female friend, right? There
's no reason why she wouldn't be a
female friend to us, even if she creates
adversity for us to
practice. These are still two
fellow practitioners. Do you understand this? They are still
two fellow practitioners. So, the
important thing is who we are
in the present moment, and we will know
who our child will be, right?
So, rest assured, there is no reason for
these children to resent their father because
he has no karmic consequences that would
create enemies. The actions
of a bodhisattva never lead to suffering
for sentient beings and never lead to
death.  Resentment towards sentient beings will lead to
their happiness. That's why
Na Tien said that when a Zen master had an
animal running towards him, he took a stick and
beat it until it was in pain, but he
avoided the karmic consequences later. Similarly,
our Bodhisattva
did the same, which was good for the
karma of the two children. So,
when we listen to Buddhist scriptures, we
must listen deeply, very deeply, to the merits and actions
of the Bodhisattva that benefit sentient beings.
Then we will know
what those people experienced and what benefits they received. Only
the conclusion is truly understood.
But we ourselves,
when we do something, still
think about whether it will harm sentient beings. Bodhisattvas are beyond comprehension; their merits
and actions are beyond comprehension. They
help each other achieve
success. Is that satisfactory?
So, with a pure mind,
all actions are not actions.
If you defile your mind with defilement, then all your
actions, no matter what form they take, will inevitably lead to
suffering. That's for sure.
[music]
Yes, sir.